# Nutanix Files

Nutanix Files is a software-defined, scale-out file storage solution that provides a repository for unstructured data, such as home directories, user profiles, departmental shares, application logs, backups, and archives. Flexible and responsive to workload requirements, Files is a fully integrated, core component of Nutanix.

You can deploy Nutanix Files on an existing or standalone cluster. Unlike standalone NAS appliances, Files consolidates VM and file storage, eliminating the need to create an infrastructure silo. Administrators can manage Files with Nutanix Prism, just like VM services, which unifies and simplifies management. Integration with Active Directory enables support for quotas and access-based enumeration (ABE), as well as self-service restores with the Windows Previous Versions feature. Nutanix Files also supports native remote replication and file server cloning, which lets you back up Files off-site and run antivirus scans and machine learning without affecting production.

Nutanix Files can run on a dedicated cluster or be co-located on a cluster running user VMs. Nutanix supports Files with both ESXi and AHV. Files includes native high availability and uses AOS storage for intracluster data resiliency. AOS storage also provides data efficiency techniques such as erasure coding (EC-X).

Nutanix Files includes File Analytics, which gives you a variety of useful insights into your data, including full audit trails, anomaly detection, ransomware detection and intelligence, data age analytics, and custom reporting. You can also leverage Nutanix Data Lens to provide deeper insights and more robust ransomware protection for your Nutanix Files environment. Data Lens provides analytics and ransomware defense at scale for Nutanix Unified Storage.